Phase 1: Update getting started page - Content (#433)
OctopusDeploy/docs: docs/getting-started/index.md

### 2. Set up deployment environments

Octopus will need to know where you are going to deploy to. You can deploy to Windows servers, Linux servers, Microsoft Azure, an Offline Package Drop, Cloud Regions, or Kubernetes. These are known as your deployment targets, and they are organized into environments so you can promote your software through your deployment pipeline, for instance, from Development to Testing and finally into Production.

#### Deployment Targets

Deployment targets represent the servers, machines and cloud services where your software and services will be deployed.

#### Environments

Octopus organizes your deployment targets into groups called environments so you can promote your software through your deployment pipeline, for instance, from Development to Test and finally into Production.

#### Target Roles

Target roles allow you to “tag” deployment targets with a specific keyword which can be used in your deployments.

#### Tentacle Agent

> When you deploy software to Windows servers, you need to install Tentacle Agent, a lightweight agent service, on your Windows servers so they can communicate with the Octopus server in either a listening or a polling mode.

Reviewer: With the Linux Tentacle, this statement is no longer accurate.  Perhaps, "When you deploy to servers, running either Windows, Linux or Mac, you need to install the Tentacle Agent...."

Also, I'm wondering if we should include a blurb about not needing a tentacle if you are deploying to Azure Web Apps, K8s clusters, Service Fabric, etc

### 4. Define your deployment process

Octopus Deploy is designed to work with teams following agile software development methodologies, that is, continuously deploying software, iterating, making changes, and redeploying.
Before you can deploy, a Project will need to be created with a Deployment Process which will contain all the information needed to have your teams successfully redeploy every time.

#### Projects

Projects let you manage multiple software projects from the Octopus Web Portal. For each project you have, you define a deployment process, configuration variables, and the environments the software will be deployed to.

#### Deployment Process

The deployment process is like a recipe for deploying your software. You define the recipe by adding steps and variables to a project. Each step contains a specific action (or set of actions) that is executed as part of the deployment process each time your software is deployed.

#### Variables

Octopus lets you define variables for configuration values that change, so you can have a different value for each environment or deployment target

> Learn more about the [deployment process](/docs/deployment-process/index.md), how you can set up [projects](/docs/deployment-process/projects/index.md), use [variables](/docs/deployment-process/variables/index.md) and [lifecycles](/docs/deployment-process/lifecycles/index.md) in your deployments, .

Reviewer 2: ", ." at the end of the sentence. Was there more to the list?

---
title: Getting Started
description: This section provides a conceptual overview of Octopus Deploy, and links to documentation that guides you through your own self-hosted or cloud-hosted Octopus server.
position: 1
---

Welcome!

This section provides an overview of Octopus Deploy concepts and links to the relevant documentation, which explore the concepts further and guides you through implementing them with your own [self-hosted](#self-hosted-octopus) or [cloud-hosted](#octopus-cloud) Octopus server.

## How Octopus Works

> Octopus Deploy allows users to consistently and reliably deploy by creating a Release and deploying it following the steps defined in a Projects Deployment Process.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure about `reliably deploy by creating`. While it might feel like it's stating the obvious, sometimes I think it makes sense to do so, not all of our users have English as a first language, or if they're just in a hurry and don't want to do a careful reading. You could expand the sentence: `reliably deploy their software by creating releases of the software...`, but I think you cover it in the next paragraph, so it might be better to just delete this opening sentence.

As an Octopus user, you define the process for deploying your software. You specify the environments the applications are deployed to and who on your team can deploy to which environments. For instance, you might want QA to deploy to test environments, but not to production. Taking this approach means that even if different members of the team trigger deployments, the deployment process remains consistent. Once releases have been created, they can be deployed as many times as you need.

> Below outlines the main steps for doing your first deployment and some of the terms you will need to know.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure about this sentence. "Below outlines" doesn't sound right to me. You could try: 
```suggestion
The steps below walk you through your first deployment and some of the terms you will need to know.
```

Installing the self-hosted [Octopus Deploy server](/docs/installation/index.md) sets up the [Octopus Web Portal](/docs/getting-started/index.md#the-octopus-web-portal) and the [Octopus REST API](/docs/octopus-rest-api/index.md). The [installation documentation](/docs/installation/index.md) provides instructions for downloading, installing, and configuring your Octopus Deploy server.

#### Octopus Cloud {#octopus-cloud}

Octopus Cloud is the hosted version of Octopus Deploy. We designed Octopus Cloud and self-hosted Octopus to provide the same functionality; however, there are some minor differences, for instance, with Octopus Cloud, we're [responsible](/docs/administration/security/index.md#responsibility) for taking backups, upgrading the service, and maintaining and monitoring the underlying systems.

Learn more about [Octopus Cloud](/docs/octopus-cloud/index.md).

#### The Octopus Web Portal

Whether you're self-hosting the Octopus server, or using Octopus Cloud, the Octopus Web Portal is where you'll manage your infrastructure, projects, access the built-in repository, grant your team access to projects, and create your automated deployments.

> ### 2. Set up deployment environments

Reviewer 3: Title case :) 
```suggestion
### 2. Set up Deployment Environments
```

## 1. Hosting the Octopus Deploy Server

The first thing to decide is where to host your [Octopus Deploy server](/docs/installation/index.md). You can install your own [self-hosted](/docs/installation/index.md) instance or use [Octopus Cloud](/docs/octopus-cloud/index.md) which is hosted and maintained by Octopus Deploy.

### **Installing the Self-hosted Octopus Deploy Server**
1. Download the installer from [{{Resources,Downloads}}](https://octopus.com/downloads)
1. Run the installer on your machine and follow the [installation instructions](docs/installation/index.md#install-octopus).
1. Once installed, click **Get started...** and follow the installer wizard to set up your instance.
1. Click **Install**.

### **Create a Cloud Instance**
1. Create an account by clicking **Start free trial** at [octopus.com/trial](https://octopus.com/trial)
1. From the instances screen, click **Create cloud instance** and follow the [set up instructions](docs/octopus-cloud/index.md#getting-started-with-octopus-cloud).
1. Confirm the details you've provided, agree to the terms and click **Looks good. Deploy my Octopus!**.

## 2. Configure your Deployment Environments

> Octopus needs to connect to the [Infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure/index.md) you'll be using to deploy your software. You can deploy to Windows servers, Linux servers, Microsoft Azure, an Offline Package Drop, Cloud Regions, or Kubernetes. These are known as your deployment targets, and they are organized into environments so you can promote your software through your deployment pipeline, for instance, from Development to Testing and finally into Production.

Reviewer 2: Change "Testing" to "Test" in "Development to Testing and finally into Production"

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/VnXGAJP_SXY" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### **Creating Environments** (0:06)
1. Navigate to **{{Infrastructure,Environments}}** and click **ADD ENVIRONMENT**.
1. Give your new environment a meaningful name. We recommend creating environments called *Development*, *Test*, and *Production*.
1. Click **SAVE**.

### **Creating Deployment Targets** (2:08)
1. Navigate to **{{Infrastructure,Deployment Targets}}** and click **ADD DEPLOYMENT TARGET**.
1. Choose the type of Deployment Target you want to set up and follow these [instructions](/docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/index.md#adding-deployment-targets) for your target type.

:::secondary
**Learn More**

**[Environments](/docs/infrastructure/environments/index.md) and [Deployment Targets](/docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/index.md)**

> Deployment targets represent the servers, machines, and cloud services where your software and services will be deployed. Octopus organizes your deployment targets into groups called environments so you can promote your software through your deployment pipeline, for instance, from Development to Test and finally into Production.

Reviewer 4: Consider: "... through your deployment pipline. For instance, from ..."

1. Select your package and click **SAVE**.

:::hint
**New to Octopus and don’t have a package?**

Use our example package to quickly create your first deployment. [hello-world.1.0.0.zip](https://octopus.com/images/docs/hello-world.1.0.0.zip)
:::

:::secondary
**Learn More**

**[Packaging Your Applications](/docs/packaging-applications/index.md)**

A package is an archive (zip, tar, NuGet) that contains all the files needed to run your software. You can host packages in external repositories or the built-in Octopus repository.

There are many more tools you might choose to use to create your package, but as long as you can create one of our [supported packages](/docs/packaging-applications/index.md#supported-formats) you can deploy your applications with Octopus Deploy.

**[Build Server Integration](/docs/packaging-applications/build-servers/index.md)**

Most Octopus users automate their existing tool chain to push packages to their Octopus Deploy server with our [API and Integrations](/docs/octopus-rest-api/index.md). But you can manually upload the package or host it in an external repository.
:::

## 4. Define Your Deployment Process

> Octopus Deploy is designed to work with teams following agile software development methodologies, that is, continuously deploying software, iterating, making changes, and redeploying. Before you can deploy, you need to create a project with your deployment process. The deployment process contains all the information needed to have your teams successfully redeploy every time.

Reviewer 4: "successfully redeploy every time" should be "successfully deploy every time". It's good to mention it in the first sentence so they know they can re-deploy if they need, but we shouldn't be promoting re-deploying in a getting started guide.
